# How To Ask Questions The Smart Way

Author: *Eric Steven Raymond*, *Rick Moen*

### Introduction

* Hackers actually like hard problems and good, thought-provoking questions about them. Good questions help develop our understanding, and often reveal problems we might not have noticed or thought about otherwise.
* Hackers have a reputation for meeting simple questions with what looks like hostility or arrogance.

> It's OK to be ignorant; it's not OK to play stupid.

* The best way to get a rapid and responsive answer is to ask it like a person with smarts, confidence, and clues who just happens to need help on one particular problem.

### Before You Ask

1. Try to find an answer by searching the archives of the forum or mailing list you plan to post to.
2. Try to find an answer by searching the Web.
3. Try to find an answer by reaching the manual.
4. Try to find an answer by reading a FAQ.
5. Try to find an answer by inspection or experimentation.
6. Try to find an answer by asking a skilled friend.
7. If you're a programmer, try to find an answer by reading the source code.

* Display the fact that you have done these things first.
* Use tactics like doing a Google search on the text of whatever error message you get.
* Take your time. Do not expect to be able to solve a complicated problem with a few seconds of Googling.
* Prepare your question. Think it through.
* Beware of asking the wrong question.
* Never assume you are entitled to an answer.
* Making it clear that you are able and willing to help in the process of developing the solution is a very good start.

### When You Ask

#### Choose your forum carefully

*Don't*

* post your question to a forum where it's off topic
* post a very elementary question to a forum where advanced technical questions are expected, or vice-versa
* cross-post to too many different newsgroups
* post a personal e-mail to somebody who is neither an acquaintance of yours nor personally responsible for solving your problem

#### Stack Overflow

Search, *then* ask on Stack Exchange

Stack Exchange has grown to [over 100 sites](http://stackexchange.com/sites), but here are the most likely candidates:

* Super User is for questions about general-purpose computing. If your question isn't about code or programs that you talk to only over a network connection, it probably goes here.
* Stack Overflow is for questions about programming.
* Server Fault is for questions about server and network administration.

#### Web and IRC forums

